docs: add docs for MongoDB timeseries outputstream (#277)
golioth/docs: docs/cloud/2-output-streams/1-mongo/README.md

---
id: overview
title: MongoDB Overview

> slug: /cloud/output-streams/mongo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: /cloud/output-streams/mongodb-timeseries
```

BSON document and ingest them in your MongoDB instance.

## MongoDB Specific Attributes

For each Output Stream type, there is a set of specified attributes. Here are
the ones for MongoDB:

| Attribute          | Type   | Required | Description |
| ------------------ | ------ |:--------:| ----------- |
| Name | string | ✅        | Name to identify the Output Stream |
| Event Type Filter | string | ✅        | Select `DEVICE_STREAM_TYPE` |
| Connection String| string | ✅        | Connection string containing username and password |
| Database| string | ✅        | Name of the MongoDB database |
| Collection| string | ✅        | Name of the MongoDB collection |
| Timefield| string | ✅        | Name to use for the timefield in the BSON document (e.g. "timestamp")|
| Metafield| string | ✅        | Name to use for the metafield in the BSON document (e.g. "metadata")|

## Overview

To use this integration, you need to:

- Have a MongoDB instance (either a standalone instance or in Atlas, Mongo's managed service)
- Create a MongoDB user that has a username and password
- Create a timeseries collection in your MongoDB database

> - (Optional) Whitelist Golioth's IP address in your Atlas deployment

Author: yes, per slack discussion, the IP address to use is this:
`34.136.157.127/32`

- Create an instance of the MongoDB Output Stream in your Golioth account

## Setup the MongoDB Output Stream

### 1. Setup a MongoDB deployment

If you're using MongoDB Atlas, see the [Getting Started with Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/getting-started/) tutorial.

If you're using a local MongoDB installation, see the [Install MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/installation/#std-label-tutorial-installation) tutorial.

### 2. Create a MongoDB database user

If you are using MongoDB Atlas, see [Create a Database User for Your Cluster](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/tutorial/create-mongodb-user-for-cluster/).

### 3. Create a timeseries collection

### 4. Get the MongoDB connection string

### 5. Create an MongoDB Output Stream in the Golioth console

From the `Select an Output Stream Type` page, select `MongoDB`.

![Select MongoDB Output Stream](./assets/select-outputstream.png)

In the `Create a new Output Stream` form, enter the following:

> * **Name**: The name you want to give to your Output Stream
> * **Event Type Filter**: select `DEVICE_STREAM_TYPE` from the list of types (the
>   MongoDB Output Stream is currently limited to stream events only)
> * **MongoDB URL**: Paste the `Cluster URL` you copied from your MongoDB Cloud org
>   settings
> * **MongoDB token**: Paste the MongoDB Cloud API token
> * **MongoDB bucket**: the name of an existing MongoDB Cloud bucket where you want
>   to send your events
> * **MongoDB measurement name**: The name of the MongoDB measurement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Name**: The name you want to give to your Output Stream
* **Event Type Filter**: select `DEVICE_STREAM_TYPE` from the list of types (the
  MongoDB Output Stream is currently limited to stream events only)
* **Connection String**: Paste the `Connection String` you copied for your MongoDB cluster
* **Database**: the name of an existing MongoDB database where you want
  to send your events
* **Collection**: The time series collection to store your events
* **Timefield**: the name of the field containing the date in your time series document
* **Metafield**: the name of the field containing metadata in your timeseries document (your deviceId and projectId will be populated here) 
```

![Complete create Output Stream form](./assets/create-outputstream-form.png)

## Example Data

Golioth Output Streams use the [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io) format.
Because MongoDB is a timeseries database, we transform events from the

> CloudEvents format to the MongoDB [line protocol](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/syntax/line-protocol/)

Reviewer: @tim-golioth This is left over from InfluxDB line protocol transformation. Is there an alternative description to transforming into a MongoDB Time Series Document or can we delete this section?

Author: let me check, nice catch!

Author: @dylanswartz see update

```
mongodb+srv://golioth:<password>@outputstreams.zasw4oh.mongodb.net
```

![Connection string](./assets/atlas-connection-string.png)

### 5. Create an MongoDB Output Stream in the Golioth console

From the `Select an Output Stream Type` page, select `MongoDB`.

![Select MongoDB Output Stream](./assets/select-outputstream.png)

In the `Create a new Output Stream` form, enter the following:

* **Name**: The name you want to give to your Output Stream
* **Event Type Filter**: select `DEVICE_STREAM_TYPE` from the list of types (the
  MongoDB Output Stream is currently limited to stream events only)
* **Connection String**: Paste the `Connection String` you copied for your MongoDB cluster
* **Database**: the name of an existing MongoDB database where you want
  to send your events
* **Collection**: The time series collection to store your events
* **Timefield**: the name of the field containing the date in your time series document
* **Metafield**: the name of the field containing metadata in your timeseries document (your deviceId and projectId will be populated here)

![Complete create Output Stream form](./assets/create-outputstream-form.png)

## Example Data

> Golioth Output Streams use the [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io) format.
> Because MongoDB is a timeseries database, we transform events from the
> CloudEvents format to the MongoDB [line protocol](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/syntax/line-protocol/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Golioth Output Streams utilize the [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io/) format. Therefore, it is necessary to transform events from the CloudEvents format into a MongoDB BSON (Binary JSON) document.
```
